# Acoustic cues in the production and perception of Cantonese sarcasm
Purpose: Sarcasm has been associated with several acoustic cues, but exploration of the cues in Cantonese has been limited. This study revisited the production and perception of sarcasm in Cantonese, investigating how prosodic features signal sarcastic speech and how well they can be recognized.

Method: Eighteen native Hong Kong Cantonese speakers produced colloquial sentences with three attitudes: sarcasm, neutrality, and sincerity. Five prosodic parameters and three voice quality parameters were analyzed and compared between attitudes, genders, and individual speakers. Forty-two native listeners rated the degree of sarcasm and sincerity of the target utterances. Average rating scores were calculated and compared between attitudes.

Results: Cantonese sarcastic speech is characterized by a slower speech rate, lower mean F0, lower mean amplitude, narrower F0 range, greater amplitude range, and being less breathy (higher harmonic-to-noise ratio (HNR), lower shimmer) in comparison to sincere speech. Cantonese speakers use different combination of acoustic cues to deliver sarcastic meanings. Listeners can recognize sarcasm according to the acoustic cues alone. The insertion of an intensifier “zan55hai22 (really)” plays an essential role in both production and perception of Cantonese sarcasm.

Conclusion: Our findings suggest that the patterns of using acoustic cues to express sarcasm are language-specific and speaker-dependent. Speech rate is the most prominent cue associated with Cantonese sarcasm, followed by HNR, pitch and amplitude. How a combination of prosodic cues is utilized by the speakers influences how well the listeners can perceive the sarcastic meanings. In addition to prosodic features, semantic information may be a supplementary factor for the recognition of sarcasm.

